# Container sample application

The Steps
Here’s an overview of the steps outlined below:

* A – Pre-Requisites
* B – Clone The 3 app Repositories
* C – Create The Infrastructure
* D – Set Up Secrets And Keys
    * D1 – Docker Registry Login Secret Setup
    * D2 – Set Up Repository Access Token
    * D3 – Install And Set Up FluxCD
* E – Build And Run Your Application

## A – Pre-Requisites
You will need:

* A Gitlab GIT Repo account
* An AKS Cluster
* Access to the registry (Nexus / Azure container registry)
* kubectl installed to your host. 
* fluxctl installed to your host. 
* AKS installed to your host. 

## B – Clone the Repositories
Clone these three repositories to your own Gitlab GIT Repo account:

* https://GitlabGITRepo/"projectname"/gitops-example-app
* https://GitlabGITRepo/"projectname"/gitops-example-deploy
* https://GitlabGITRepo/"projectname"/gitops-example-infra

## C – Create the Infrastructure
Itegration with AKS ARM platform. Call process through GitLAB pipeline TBD

## D – Set Up Secrets And Keys
In order to co-ordinate the various steps in the GitOps workflow, you have to set up three sets of secrets in the Gitlab GIT Repo repositories. This is to allow:

* The Kubernetes cluster to log into the repository you want to pull your image from
* The Gitlab GIT Repo-example-app‘s repository action to update the image identifier in the Gitlab GIT Repo-example-deploy repository
* Allow fluxcd to access the gitops-example-deploy Gitlab GIT Repo repository from the Kubernetes cluster

### D1. Docker Registry Login Secret Setup
To do this you create two secrets in the gitops-example-app repository at the link:

```
***** insert process ****
```

### D2. Set up Repository Access Token
To do this you first create a personal access token in Gitlab GIT Repo.

```
***** insert process ****
```

### D3 – Install And Set Up FluxCD
Finally, you set up flux in your Kubernetes cluster, so it can read and write back to the gitops-example-deploy repository.

```
kubectl create clusterrolebinding "cluster-admin-$(whoami)" --clusterrole=cluster-admin --user="$(gcloud config get-value core/account)"
kubectl create ns flux
fluxctl install --git-branch main --git-user=<YOUR Gitlab GIT Repo USERNAME> --git-email=<YOUR Gitlab GIT Repo EMAIL> --git-url=git@Gitlab GIT Repo.com:<YOUR Gitlab GIT Repo USERNAME>/gitops-example-deploy --git-path=namespaces,workloads --namespace=flux | kubectl apply -f -
```

When the installation is complete, this command will return a key generated by FluxCD on the cluster:
fluxctl identity --k8s-fwd-ns flux

You need to take this key, and place it in the gitops-example-deploy repository at this link:
https://Gitlab GIT Repo.com/<YOUR Gitlab GIT Repo USERNAME>/gitops-example-deploy/settings/keys/new

Call the key flux
Tick the ‘write access’ option
Click ‘Add Key’
You have now set up all the secrets that need setting up to make the flow work.

You will now make a change and will follow the links in the steps as the application builds and deploys without intervention from you.

## E – Build And Run Your Application
To deploy your application, all you need to do is make a change to the application in your gitops-example-app repository.


An overview of the flow of this
Step 1a, 2 and 3
Go to:

https://Gitlab GIT Repo.com/<YOUR Gitlab GIT Repo USERNAME>/gitops-example-app/blob/main/Dockerfile

and edit the file, changing the contents of the echo command to whatever you like, and commit the change, pushing to the repository.

This push (step 1a above) triggers the Docker login, build and push via a Gitlab GIT Repo action (steps 2 and 3), which are specified in code here:

https://Gitlab GIT Repo.com/ianmiell/gitops-example-app/blob/main/.Gitlab GIT Repo/workflows/main.yaml#L13-L24

This action uses a couple of docker actions (docker/login-action and docker/push-action) to commit and push the new image with a tag of the Gitlab GIT Repo SHA value of the commit. The SHA value is given to you as a variable by Gitlab GIT Repo Actions (Gitlab GIT Repo.sha) within the action’s run. You also use the DOCKER secrets set up earlier. Here’s a snippet:

    - name: Log in to Docker Hub
      uses: docker/login-action@f054a8b539a109f9f41c372932f1ae047eff08c9
      with:
        username: ${{secrets.DOCKER_USER}}
        password: ${{secrets.DOCKER_PASSWORD}}
    - name: Build and push Docker image
      id: docker_build
      uses: docker/build-push-action@ad44023a93711e3deb337508980b4b5e9bcdc5dc
      with:
        context: .
        push: true
        tags: ${{secrets.DOCKER_USER}}/gitops-example-app:${{ Gitlab GIT Repo.sha }}
Step 4
Once the image is pushed to the Docker repository, another action is called which triggers another action that updates the gitops-example-deploy Git repository (step 4 above)

    - name: Repository Dispatch
      uses: peter-evans/repository-dispatch@v1
      with:
        token: ${{ secrets.EXAMPLE_GITOPS_DEPLOY_TRIGGER }}
        repository: <YOUR Gitlab GIT Repo USERNAME>/gitops-example-deploy
        event-type: gitops-example-app-trigger
        client-payload: '{"ref": "${{ Gitlab GIT Repo.ref }}", "sha": "${{ Gitlab GIT Repo.sha }}"}'
It uses the Personal Access Token secrets EXAMPLE_GITOPS_DEPLOY_TRIGGER created earlier to give the action the rights to update the repository specified. It also passes in an event-type value (gitops-example-app-trigger) so that the action on the other repository knows what to do. Finally, it passes in a client-payload, which contains two variables: the Gitlab GIT Repo.ref and the Gitlab GIT Repo.sha variables made available to us by the Gitlab GIT Repo Action.

This configuration passes all the information needed by the action specified in the gitops-example-deploy repository to update its deployment configuration.

The other side of step 4 is the ‘receiving’ Gitlab GIT Repo Action code here:

https://Gitlab GIT Repo.com/ianmiell/gitops-example-deploy/blob/main/.Gitlab GIT Repo/workflows/main.yaml

Among the first lines are these:

on:
  repository_dispatch:
    types: gitops-example-app-trigger
Which tell the action that it should be run only on a repository dispatch, when the event type is called gitops-example-app-trigger. Since this is what we did on the push to the gitops-example-app action above, this should be the action that’s triggered on this gitops-example-deploy repository.

The first thing this action does is check out and update the code:

      - name: Check Out The Repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Update Version In Checked-Out Code
        if: ${{ Gitlab GIT Repo.event.client_payload.sha }}
        run: |
          sed -i "s@\(.*image:\).*@\1 docker.io/${{secrets.DOCKER_USER}}/gitops-example-app:${{ Gitlab GIT Repo.event.client_payload.sha }}@" ${Gitlab GIT Repo_WORKSPACE}/workloads/webserver.yaml
If a sha value was passed in with the client payload part of the Gitlab GIT Repo event, then a sed is performed, which updates the deployment code. The workloads/webserver.yaml Kubernetes specification code is updated by the sed command to reflect the new tag of the Docker image we built and pushed.

Once the code has been updated within the action, you commit and push using the stefanzweifel/git-auto-commit-action action:

      - name: Commit The New Image Reference
        uses: stefanzweifel/git-auto-commit-action@v4
        if: ${{ Gitlab GIT Repo.event.client_payload.sha }}
        with:
          commit_message: Deploy new image ${{ Gitlab GIT Repo.event.client_payload.sha }}
          branch: main
          commit_options: '--no-verify --signoff'
          repository: .
          commit_user_name: Example GitOps Bot
          commit_user_email: <AN EMAIL ADDRESS FOR THE COMMIT>
          commit_author: <A NAME FOR THE COMMITTER> << AN EMAIL ADDRESS FOR THE COMMITTER>>
Step 5
Now the deployment configuration has been updated, we now wait for FluxCD to notice the change in the Kubernetes deployment configuration. After a few minutes, the Flux controller will notice that the main branch of the gitops-example-deploy repository has changed, and try the apply the yaml configuration in that repository to the Kubernetes cluster. This will update the workload.

If you port-forward to the application’s service, and hit it using curl or your browser, you should see that the application’s output has changed to whatever you committed above.

And then you’re done! You’ve created an end-to-end GitOps continuous delivery pipeline from code to cluster that requires no intervention other than a code change!